# rkvst-sbom

This is a Dockerized Implementation of the Code found in [our Archivist Samples Repo](https://github.com/jitsuin-inc/archivist-samples/tree/main/archivist_samples/software_bill_of_materials)

This can be used as a standalone container to be dropped in any pipeline, alternatively, it can be used directly as a GH Action.

## Adding the rkvst-sbom to your pipeline

Generally speaking the same steps apply to all pipelines, Github Actions included:

1. [Create an App Registration in RKVST](https://docs.rkvst.com/docs/setup-and-administration/configuring-app-registrations-for-non-interactive-use/)

2. Add your `CLIENT_ID` and `CLIENT_SECRET` to your pipeline as Secrets (they will need to be passed as Env Vars to the container during operation).

How you add these secrets will be unique to your environment, [here are instructions for doing this in Github.](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets#creating-encrypted-secrets-for-a-repository)

3. Add rkvst-sbom to your pipeline

This will also depend on the environment you work in.

For illustrative purposes here is an example from this repos [workflows]() folder

```yaml
       - uses: leflambeur/rkvst-sbom@v0.0.5
         env:
           CLIENT_ID: ${{ secrets.CLIENT_ID }}
           CLIENT_SECRET: ${{ secrets.CLIENT_SECRET }}
         with:
           command: release
           asset_id: assets/8477ddbd-3af2-434a-83ec-18c0bb3bd956
           attachments: '["yewnorosen-rkvst-sbom_latest.cyclonedx/yewnorosen-rkvst-sbom_latest.cyclonedx"]'
```

In this case I am passing through the `CLIENT_ID` and `SECRET` we generated earlier as envvars but I am also passing through some other, pertinent, information as arguments to the command.

I have the type of event I'm sending (`release`), the ASSET_ID (`assets/8477ddbd-3af2-434a-83ec-18c0bb3bd956`) and the name of the SBOM I know will be generated by my other steps(`"yewnorosen-rkvst-sbom_latest.cyclonedx/yewnorosen-rkvst-sbom_latest.cyclonedx"`).

Note that more information is required than this, but most defaults for the arguments the code requires have been set in the `action.yaml` which is specific to Github Actions.

If you are using your own pipeline **you must ensure you provide the correct arguments to the container yourself.**

To see what arguments you can use and in which order they must be presented, please see `sbom.py` for the direct code explanation or you can see the how we do it for real in the `action.yaml`.

### Building with Docker

Pre-reqs:

* Git
* Docker

1. Clone the Repo

```bash
git clone git@github.com:leflambeur/rkvst-sbom.git
```

2. Build the Image

```bash
docker build -t <your registry here>/rkvst-sbom:latest .
```

3. Use the Image!

See `Adding the rkvst-sbom to your pipeline` for details on how to do so.
